well I out either internet people it's
Bo again so tonight we're gonna talk
about a question I got more than a year
ago and a question I got last night
because well one kind of grows right out
of the other more than a year ago black
guy asked me why is it that anytime
there's a white person who even vaguely
seems to care or understand they turn
out to be Irish or of Irish ancestry and
oddly enough that very specific question
kind of came up again before we get into
it we have to go through a timeline of
the civil rights movement it's important
once we get to this to the answer to
understand exactly what went down okay
so it's the 1960s oppressed want civil
rights feel like you should already have
civil rights I mean there was a civil
war fought over this but there's issues
so protests marches police respond the
way police respond tear gas batons water
cannons bullets it escalates
there are bombings assassinations
government agencies infiltrate movements
to destabilize them and take out the
leaders leaders get arrested end up
behind bars on the upside they write
some of their best work behind bars
while all of this is going on there's a
group emerging they're left-leaning
they're known for wearing black berets
and aviator sunglasses and they start to
run those neighborhoods if you're in the
u.s. you're picturing the Black Panthers
if you're one of our European viewers
you're probably picturing the Irish
Republican Army it's the same timeline
it's exact same timeline the causes are
very very different and the IRA got a
whole lot more violent but the causes or
that the timeline is the same that was
the source of that initial camaraderie I
think now in the south and I believe
this is probably true in the southern
United States I don't think if this guy
was from Boston he would be saying this
but in the southern US yeah I would
great Irish people are probably the
least racist but there is a reason for
that it is very hard to find an Irish
American in the South that is not also
native because when the Irish came to
the US they weren't really looked upon
very nicely when they came down here
they intermarried broke down those
racial barriers broke down those racial
barriers created a little bit more
understanding and then there's two kind
of humorous reasons that I think people
see this one is simply there's a lot I
mean it's a cliche it's a stereotype but
Irish Americans have a lot of kids that
in my experience has been very very true
ooh the other thing is that Irish
Americans are very very quick to tell
you that they're Irish so it may just be
that the white people that seem to care
when you find out their background it's
Irish because Irish people are very very
proud of that ancestry so that's the
answer to that question now the question
that grew out of that has to do with the
outcomes the timelines in the 60s 70s
very very similar very similar the
outcomes extremely different and the
question is when does personal
responsibility start to come in you know
personal responsibility versus societal
pressure I would say one generation
after it ends the problem is in the u.s.
it's not over yeah we've got the Civil
Rights Act but anytime there's a study
who is disproportionately sentenced who
is disproportionately stopped randomly
who's disproportionately stopped and
frisked yeah we've got the Fair Housing
Act but redlining still happens it's not
gone those institutional issues those
systemic issues they're still there
until those are gone we can't say oh
pull yourself up by your bootstraps it's
all on you because it might not be yeah
there are there are cases where some of
these personal actions can help
eliminate some of that can might but
that doesn't mean they won't become a
victim
of the systemic issues in this country
still there they're still there they can
try to dodge it but that doesn't mean
they won't get hit
so the first step would be ending it
that's the first step stopping it I
think a why second step would be making
amends of some kind and that topics
coming up that topic is coming up by
actual viable candidates for the White
House when we talked about reparations
on this channel last time the largest
number thrown out by any politician that
had any kind of clout was a hundred
billion we broke it down we did the math
man that's insulting that is actually a
really insulting number when you
actually do the math on it that number
now presidential candidates are talking
about five hundred billion that's
getting closer to what I think would be
in the ballpark at least it's not
insulting anymore but again I'm not the
one you have to ask I do think that
that's an important step to be taken
once it ends but the primary thing is we
kind of make it stop first
and being aware that it's not over that
that fight is still going on is really
important to eventually winning it and
the problem is that from the outside
looking in it's gotten so subtle that we
kind of shrug it off and we can't do
that anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night